README.md, before:

png-img
=======

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bem/png-img.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/bem/png-img)

Lite self-contained png image processing library for OS X and Linux.

## Installation
```
npm install png-img
```

## API
### new PngImg(buffer)
Create `PngImg` object from passed buffer with image.

Arguments:
 * `buf` - `Buffer` with image file content.
```js
var fs = require('fs'),
    PngImg = require('png-img');

var buf = fs.readFileSync('path/to/img.png'),
    img = new PngImg(buf);
```

### size()
Get image size as an object.
```js
console.log(img.size());
```
for 32x32 image will print out:
```
{ width: 32, height: 32 }
```

### get(x, y)
Get pixel color and alpha.

Returns object:
 * r: red channel (0 to 255)
 * g: green channel (0 to 255)
 * b: blue channel (0 to 255)
 * a: alpha (0 to 255). 0 - transparent

```js
console.log(img.get(0, 0));
```
will print pixel and color for pixel (0, 0):
```js
{
  r: 100,
  g: 150,
  b: 200,
  a: 255
}
```

### crop(offsetX, offsetY, widht, height)
Crop image. Modifies current image.

Arguments:
 * `offsetX` - horizontal offset from the left side of the image
 * `offsetY` - vertical offset from the top side of the image
 * `width` - new width
 * `height` - new height

Returns: current image object

Throws if new image is not inside the current image.
```js
img
    .crop(0, 0, 16, 16)
    .crop(8, 8, 8, 8);
```

### save(file, callback)
Save image to file. Asynchronous operation.

Arguments:
 * `file` - path to file to save image
 * `callback` - function with one argument (`error`). Will be called after save operation finish or on error.

Overwrites existing file.

```js
img.save('path/to/file.png', function(error) {
    if(error) {
        console.error('Error:', error);
    } else {
        console.log('OK');
    }
});
```


## Dev environment requirements
Linux: Depends on GCC 4.7 or later

OS X: Tested with Xcode 6.0 development tools (but should be ok with Xcode 5.0 also)

Windows: Tested on MSVC 2012

## Build
```
npm run build
```
This will build native node extension and place it to the `compiled` directory

## Vagrant
Use vagrant to build and test on Linux and Windows from OS X.

Tested with `vagrant 1.7` and `VirtualBox 4.3`.

1. Install `vagrant` and `VirtualBox`.
2. Create windows vagrant box (see [howto](dev/vagrant-win-box.md))
3. Run `vagrant up`
4. Specify `OS` env variable to run and test on specific platform:
  - `npm run build`, `npm test` - current platform
  - `OS=linux npm run build`, `OS=linux npm test` - linux
  - `OS=win npm run build`, `OS=win npm test` - windows
  - `OS=all npm run build`, `OS=all npm test` - current, linux, windows

Commit message:

PngImg.get: fill region with color PngImg.set: set pixel color

README.md, after:

png-img
=======

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bem/png-img.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/bem/png-img)

Lite self-contained png image processing library for OS X and Linux.

## Installation
```
npm install png-img
```

## API
### new PngImg(buffer)
Create `PngImg` object from passed buffer with image.

Arguments:
 * `buf` - `Buffer` with image file content.
```js
var fs = require('fs'),
    PngImg = require('png-img');

var buf = fs.readFileSync('path/to/img.png'),
    img = new PngImg(buf);
```

### size()
Get image size as an object.
```js
console.log(img.size());
```
for 32x32 image will print out:
```
{ width: 32, height: 32 }
```

### get(x, y)
Get pixel color and alpha.

Returns object:
 * r: red channel (0 to 255)
 * g: green channel (0 to 255)
 * b: blue channel (0 to 255)
 * a: alpha (0 to 255). 0 - transparent

```js
console.log(img.get(0, 0));
```
will print pixel and color for pixel (0, 0):
```js
{
  r: 100,
  g: 150,
  b: 200,
  a: 255
}
```

### fill(offsetX, offsetY, widht, height, color)
Fill region with passed color. Modifies current image.

Arguments:
 * `offsetX` - horizontal offset from the left side of the image
 * `offsetY` - vertical offset from the top side of the image
 * `width` - region width
 * `height` - region height
 * `color` - color as {r,g,b,a} object or as a '#XXXXXX' string

Returns: current image object

Throws if region is not inside the current image
```js
img
  .fill(0, 0, 16, 16, '#00ffFF') // fill with cyan
  .fill(16, 16, 16, 16, {r: 0, g: 255, b: 255, a: 127}); // fill with half-transparent cyan
```

### set(x, y, color)
Same as `fill(x, y, 1, 1, color)`

### crop(offsetX, offsetY, widht, height)
Crop image. Modifies current image.

Arguments:
 * `offsetX` - horizontal offset from the left side of the image
 * `offsetY` - vertical offset from the top side of the image
 * `width` - new width
 * `height` - new height

Returns: current image object

Throws if new image is not inside the current image.
```js
img
    .crop(0, 0, 16, 16)
    .crop(8, 8, 8, 8);
```

### save(file, callback)
Save image to file. Asynchronous operation.

Arguments:
 * `file` - path to file to save image
 * `callback` - function with one argument (`error`). Will be called after save operation finish or on error.

Overwrites existing file.

```js
img.save('path/to/file.png', function(error) {
    if(error) {
        console.error('Error:', error);
    } else {
        console.log('OK');
    }
});
```


## Dev environment requirements
Linux: Depends on GCC 4.7 or later

OS X: Tested with Xcode 6.0 development tools (but should be ok with Xcode 5.0 also)

Windows: Tested on MSVC 2012

## Build
```
npm run build
```
This will build native node extension and place it to the `compiled` directory

## Vagrant
Use vagrant to build and test on Linux and Windows from OS X.

Tested with `vagrant 1.7` and `VirtualBox 4.3`.

1. Install `vagrant` and `VirtualBox`.
2. Create windows vagrant box (see [howto](dev/vagrant-win-box.md))
3. Run `vagrant up`
4. Specify `OS` env variable to run and test on specific platform:
  - `npm run build`, `npm test` - current platform
  - `OS=linux npm run build`, `OS=linux npm test` - linux
  - `OS=win npm run build`, `OS=win npm test` - windows
  - `OS=all npm run build`, `OS=all npm test` - current, linux, windows
